

Page 1:
 
  
  
Governance Handbook 2022-2023 
 
Board of Trustees  
Kristin Pelham, President  
William K uo, Vice President  
Dan C herrier, Trustee  
Gabi Blackman, Trustee 
Kristin S peck , Trustee 
Anika Yu, Student Board Member 
 
Superintendent  
Chris D. Funk 
 
The Dublin Unified School District Board of Trustees and Superintendent developed the DUSD 
Governance Handbook in 2006. The Governance Handbook outlines practices that build and sustain a 
positive Board-Superintendent relationship and define a culture of quality, equity, and respect.  
In June 2007, the Board adopted the CSBA Professional Governance Standards as a companion to the 
DUSD Governance Handbook. The intent of the standards is to enhance the public’s understanding 
about the critical responsibilities of local boa rds and to support boards in their efforts to govern 
effectively.  
Annually the Board recommits to the Professional Governance Standards and reviews and updates their Governance Handbook.  
 
 
Revised September 2022  
Title Page updated January 2024   

Page 2:
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Elements of Effective Governance   ......................................................................................................... 1 
I. Unified Commitment to Lead and Serve .......................................................................................... 1 
II. Shared Understanding of Roles and Responsibilities  .............................................................. 2 
III. The Board’s Responsibilitie s .................................................................................................... 3 
IV. Governance Leadership Culture ..................................................................................................... 5 
Meeting Guidelines /Norms   ........................................................................................................................ 6 
Protocols to Facilitate Governance Leaders hip .................................................................................. 6 
General Board Meetin g Rules  ................................................................................................... 7 
Using Meetings as Strategic Leadership Tools  ............................................................................... 8 
Placing Items on the Board Meeting A genda  .................................................................................. 8   
Developing the B oard M eeting Agenda  ........................................................................................... 8  
Agenda Questions Answered Before a M eeting  ............................................................................. 9  
Individual Board Member Requests for I nforma tion ..................................................................... 9 
Staff R eports  ............................................................................................................................. 9 
Board D eliberation  .................................................................................................................. 10 
Allowing the Majority to Set the Direction  ................................................................................... 10 
Electronic and S ocial Media C ommunication  ........................................................................ 11 
Individual Board Member Requests for A ction  ............................................................................ 11 
Addressing Conflict among Board M embers  ................................................................................ 11  
Community Engage ment  ......................................................................................................... 12 
Role in P ublic  ..................................................................................................................................... 12 
School Site Visitations  ..................................................................................................................... 12 
Spokesperson for the Board  ............................................................................................................. 13 
Self M onitoring of Governance Team Effectiveness  ................................................................... 13 
Employee Relations  ................................................................................................................. 13 
Complaints from the Pub lic ..................................................................................................... 13 
Planning and Evaluation Processes  ...................................................................................................... 14 
 
Appendices  
Appendix A – Effective Governance  .............................................................................................. 16 
Appendix B – Effective Governance Teams  ................................................................................ 17 
 

Page 3:
1 
 ELEMENTS OF EFFECTIV E GOVERNANCE  
There are three dimensions to the effective governance of any organization . The DUSD Governance 
Handbook documents the governance responsibilities within these three dimensions.  
1. Governing as a unified team with a shared vision to lead and serve the community. 
2. Governing within a shared understanding of roles and responsibilities.  
3. Creating and sustaining a positive governance leadership culture.  
 
I. UNIFIED COMMITMENT TO LEAD AND SERVE  
The foundation of effective governance is the common focus governing board members share that 
transcends individual differences to fulfill a greater purpose. A unity of purpose exists when the 
commitment to achieving these goals becomes the  guiding principle for all trustees.  
 
The focused efforts of Dublin Unified School District are reflected in the District vision, core values, 
mission, strategic initiatives and strategic plan adopted by the DUSD Board.  
 
 
DUBLIN UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT VISION  
“Education That Inspires Lifelong Learning”  
Core V alues  
We believe in … 
• Cultivating curiosity  and critical thinking  that guides rational, fair-minded, compassionate behavior 
• Providing a balanced comprehensive educational experience that bolsters achievement, integrity, 
resilience, flexibility , and a strong sense of self-worth 
• Educating the “whole child” and supporting their individuality 
• Recognizing that our most valuable resources are our students, teachers, support staff, 
administrators , and parent community  
• Building equity  and inclusiveness  in a safe environment 
• Creating supportive relationships  and teamwork  to bring us together 
• Every student deserves a world c lass education  
Mission   
Dublin Unified School District will educate every student to become a lifelong learner by providing a 
safe and supportive environment that fosters collective responsibility for each student’s success. 

Page 4:
2 
 Outcomes  for All Students  
Every student will…  
• Receive a world class education,  
• Graduate with a post-secondary plan 
• Be a complex thinker 
• Be an effective communicator  
• Be a socially and self -aware individual 
• Thrive 
 
II. SHARED UNDERSTANDING OF ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES   
The intent of these standards is to enhance the public’s understanding about the critical responsibilities of local boards and to support boards in their efforts to govern effectively. 
 
Effective Governance Teams : School districts and county offices of education are governed by 
boards, not by individual trustees. While understanding their separate roles, the board and 
superintendent work together as a “governance team.” This team assumes collective responsibility for 
building unity and creating a positive organizational culture in order to govern effectively. 
 To operate effectively, the B oard should have a unit y of purpose and:  
• Communicate a common vision.  
• Keep the district focused on learning and achievement for ALL students.  
• Operate openly, with trust and integrit y. 
• Adhere to the Brown Act. 
• Govern within board adopted policies and procedures. 
• Ensure opportunities for the diverse range of views in the community to inform board 
deliberations.  
• Value, support and advocate for public education. 
• Periodically evaluate the governance team’s effectiveness.  
• Take collective responsibility for the Board’s performance.  
• Recognize the value of, and be fair with, the administrative staff. 
• Be thoughtful, well-informed, independent, and hard-working decision makers. 
• Work in a spirt of cooperation. 
  

Page 5:
3 
  
Effective Trustees : In California’s public education system, a trustee is a person elected or appointed 
to serve on a school district or county board of education. Individual trustees bring unique skills, 
values, and beliefs to their board. In order to govern effectively, individual trustees must work with each other and the superintendent to ensure that a world class education is provided to each student. 
 
To be effective, each individual trustee should: 
• Govern in a dignified, professional manner, treating everyone with civility and respect. 
• Operate openly, with trust and integrity. 
• Take responsibility for the governance team’s performance; agree on behavioral norms and operational protocols.  
• Recognize and respect differences of perspective and style on the board and among staff, students, parents, and the community. 
• Understand the distinctions between board and staff roles, and refrain from performing 
management functions that are the responsibility of the superintendent and staff. 
• Understand that authority rests with the board as a whole and not with individuals. 
• Keep confidential  matters confidential.  
• Participate in professional development and commit the time and energy necessary to be informed 
and effective leaders . 
• Act with integrity and understand the implications of demeanor and behavior. 
• Ask questions 
• Remain open -minded until final action is taken by the Board. 
• Submit requests for information to the Superintendent, rather than to individual employees. 
 
III. THE BOARD ’S RESPONSIBILITIES   
The Governing Board believes that its primary responsibility is to act in the best interes ts of every 
student in the district. The Board also has major commitments to parents/guardians, all members of the community, employees, the State of California, laws pertaining to public education, and 
established policies of the district. To maximize Boa rd effectiveness and public confidence in district 
governance, Board members are expected to govern responsibly and hold themselves to the highest 
standards of ethical conduct. 
 
To fulfill these responsibilities , the Board should: 
• Involve the community, parents, students and staff in developing a common vision for the 
district focused on learning and achievement and  responsive to the needs of all students. 
• Adopt, evaluate and update policies consistent with law and the District’s  vision and goals. 
• Maintain accountability for student learning by adopting the district curriculum  and monitoring 
student progress. 
• Hire and support the Superintendent so that the vision, goals and policies of the District can be 
implemented.  

Page 6:
4 
 • Conduct regular and timely evaluations of the Superintendent  based on the vision, goals and 
performance of the District, and ensure that the Superintendent holds district personnel 
accountable.  
• Adopt a fiscally responsible  budget based on the District’s vis ion, values and goals and 
regularly monitor  the fiscal health of the District.  
• A safe and appropriate educational environment is ensured for  all students.  
• Establish a framework for the District’s c ollective bargaining process and adopt  responsible 
agreements.  
• Provide community leadership  on educational issues  and advocate on behalf of the students and 
public education at the local, state and federal levels.  
• Communicate concerns regarding staff, administration or the Governance Team directly to the Superintendent.  
• Communicate with each other (am ong the Trustees and Superintendent), while adhering to the 
tenants of the Brown Act. 
• Supporting final Board decisions, even after an opposition vote.  
 
The Superintendent should:  
• Serve as the Board’s Chief Executive Officer and Advisor  
• Serve as the school system’s educational leader  
• Keep the Board informed about school operations and programs  
• Interpret the needs of the school system to the Board  
• Manage the District’s day -to-day operations  
• Act as liaison between staff and Board  
• Ensure compliance with state a nd federal laws and regulations  
• Generate goals and objectives for the District  
• Act in public relations role with the community and the media  
• Positions self as the educational leader with parents, community,  
and outside agencies, effectively communicating DUSD’s policies  
and positions. 
• Solicits and gives attention to concerns, problems, and opinions of all  
groups and individuals  
• Delegate responsibility to the appropriate staff members  
• Ensure that evaluations of management personnel are completed  
• Implement Board Policies and Administrative Regulations and recommend 
policy changes  
• Implement the decisions of the Board  
• Be visible and have a presence at the school sites  
• Serve as Secretary to the Board and be responsible for maintaining an accurate 
and complete record of all Board proceedings  
• Conduct official correspondence for the Boar d. 
 
 

Page 7:
5 
 Role and Responsibilities of Student Board Member  
• The Student Board Member shall have the right to attend all Board meetings except closed 
(executive) sessions. (Education Code 35012)  
• All materials presented to Board Members, except those related to closed sessions, shall be presented to Student Board Members at the same time they are presented to other Board Members. The Student Board Member shall also be invited to attend s taff briefings or be 
provided with a separate staff briefing within the same timeframe as the briefing of other Board Members. In addition, all materials given to Board Members by the district between meetings, except for materials that pertain to closed s ession items, shall be distributed to Student Board 
Members. (Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member shall be recognized at Board meetings as a full member of the Board, shall be seated with other members of the Board, and shall be allowed to part icipate in 
the questioning witnesses and the discussion of issues. (Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member shall be allowed to cast preferential votes on all matters except those subject to closed session discussion. Preferential voting means a formal expression of opinion that is recorded in the minutes and cast before the official vote of the Board. Preferential votes shall not affect the final numerical outcome of a vote. The Student Board Member shall not be included in determining the vote required to carry any measure before the 
Board of the school district. No preferential vote shall be solicited on matters subject to closed 
session. (Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member may make motions that may be acted upon by the Board, except on matters dealing with employer -employee relations pursuant to Government Code 3540- 3549.3. 
(Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member shall be appointed to subcommittees of the Board in the same manner as other Board Members, be made aware of the t ime commitment required to 
participate in subcommittee meetings and work and have the right to decline an appointment. The availability of all subcommittee members, including the availability of the Student Board Member, may be considered when scheduling s ubcommittee meetings. (Education Code 
35012)  
• The Student Board Member will connect with the community and student groups, including, but not limited to all DUSD ASB leadership programs, and Student Equity Councils  
• The Student Board Member shall be invited to attend functions of the Board, such as forums, meetings with students and parents/guardians, and other general assemblies. (Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member shall not be considered members of a legislative body for purposes of the Brown Act. (Education Code 35012)  
• The Student Board Member shall not be counted in determining whether a quorum of the Board is in attendance.  
 
 
 
  
 
  

Page 8:
6 
 IV. GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP CULTURE  
Exceptional boards make governance intentional and invest in structures an d practices that can be 
thoughtfully adapted to changing circumstances. Protocols are tools to strengthen the capacity of the 
board to engage in a constructive relationship with the superintendent and staff – one that is grounded 
in a mutual understanding of the respective roles and responsibilities. Explicit norms and protocols, agreed to and upheld by the board and superintendent provide transparency and stability in the 
governance relationship as the board carries out its role. 
 
Our Governance Team should foster:  
• A common dedication to keep learning and achievement for all students our 
primary focus. 
• Every student receives what they need to thrive socially, emotionally, and academically 
• Relationship -centered schools and communities 
• Cooperation, collaboration, and communication among students, families, community, staff members, and Governing Board to build the connections necessary for success.  
• A fiscally responsible budget based on the District’s vision, values, and goals  
• Safe and nurturing learning environments that encourage and support quality teaching  
 
Meeting Guidelines /Norms  
• Focus on students’ best interests 
• Treat everyone with dignity and respect  
• Listen openly  
• Be open to ideas of others. Everyone’s opinion counts  
• Work toward the future, learning from the past  
• Promote a stable and consistent environment  
• Be mindful of length of meetings, be brief with comments while avoiding repetition  
• Share responsibility for the success of the board meeting  
• Supporting final Board decisions, even after an opposition vote 
 
 
 
PROTOCOLS TO FACILITATE GOVERNANCE L EADERSHIP  
Effective teams discuss and agree on the formal structures and processes used by the trustees and the superintendent in their operations.  
The Governing Board will conduct its meetings in public and will conduct closed sessions during such 
meetings only as authorized by law and follow the Ralph M. Brown Act : Open meetings for  
Legislativ e Bodies  (Government Code 54950). 

Page 9:
7 
 The following Board Bylaws support how meetings are conducted. 
BB 9320, Meetings and Notices  
BB 9321, Closed Session  
BB 9322, Agenda/Meeting Materials  
BB 9323, Meeting Conduct  
 
 
General Board Meeting Rules  
• The Board has adopted the Rosenberg Rules  of Order:  Simple rules of Parliamentary 
Procedure 
• When discussing problems, Board members and staff avoid public criticism of specific schools or personnel. Board members should be mindful that sometimes concerns expressed 
could appear to be critical in nature. 
• Board members are not compelled to speak to each issue. The Board President will ask for 
general reactions rather than call on each Board member individually unless specific 
consensus is being sought or issue positions a re being clarified. The Board President will 
encourage the Student Governing Board Representative to participate in issue discussions 
as appropriate.  
• Board members and staff shall avoid: o Repeating own positions/opinions 
o Repeating opinions/information alrea dy presented by other Board members/staff in 
order to preserve time for all Board members to speak  
• The Board President monitors meeting guidelines and provides respectful reminders to those who deviate 
• The Board President will remain alert to the needs of the attending audience and provide concise background or summary information as necessary, emphasizing previous Board discussions which preceded the final decision. However, the Board will refrain from 
“playing ” to the audience to the detriment of Board business.  
• Board meeting agenda shall be balanced in recognition, policy, report, and discussions 
items  
The following protocols were developed to support and promote the effectiveness  
of the governance team.  

Page 10:
8 
  
Protocol  Agreement  
Using Meetings  
as Strategi c  
Leadership Tools  All governance team members agree that the board meetings are opportunities to 
strategically move the district forward, and to communicate direction, district priorities 
and progress to the community.  
• During the reorganization meeting, the board will review the annual board meeting 
calendar of proposed meeting topics.  
• The board agenda items will be linked to the Board Commitments, as possible and 
appropriate.  
• At the conclusion of each board meeting, the superintendent will review the calendar, including future topics.  
  
Placing Items on the 
Board Agenda  
  The following steps will be followed to place items on the board agenda.  
Step 1. The board president and the superintendent will meet the week prior to  the 
release of the agenda to  the public to discuss agenda development  and other 
issues as needed.  
Step 2.  Board members may request a future agenda item be added to the Board agenda during a regular board meeting. 
Step 3.  If there is limited to no interest in an issue among the trustees, a trustee h as ten 
minutes to convince others to bring this issue to a future board meeting.  
Step 4.  A Board member may request an item added to the agenda with approval from the Board president. 
Developing the  
Board Meeting Agenda  
 • The board president will meet with the su perintendent to discuss the board meeting 
agenda the week prior to the agenda’s release to the public. The planners will be 
mindful of time needed for staff to make any adjustments to the agenda or to prepare 
background information on issues/topics. Also, planners will include items in open 
session whenever possible.  
• Agreement will be reached at the agenda planning session on which items require: 
additional background information in the agenda packet; a thorough staff briefing at 
the board meeting or a special meeting or study session to discuss the item in greater 
depth.  
• The meeting agenda will include a section to inform the board and the community of 
upcoming agenda items. 
• The Superintendent shall notify the Board President of any modifications or change s 
to the agenda prior to the Board meeting.  

Page 11:
9 
 Protocol  Agreement  
Agenda questions 
answered before  
a meeting  
 • The draft board packet will be available to all board members by the end of the 
Wednesday  prior to the board meeting. Whenever possible all relevant presentation 
materials, slides, analysis and information shall be made available the preceding 
Friday and posted on-line. Staff shall provide lengthy reports to the Board Members, 
in advance of the packet when possible, in effort to provide trustees additional review time. While from time to time additional information becomes available on 
the evening of the meeting this should be the exception rather than the rule.  
• Board members agree to email or call the superintendent with questions or 
clarification on items in the board- meeting packet  prior to Monday at 4 PM . The 
superintendent will use judgment as to whether this information will be distributed to all trustees.  Occasionally, board members’ q uestions cannot be answered prior to 
the meeting, due to time constraints, and these questions will be addressed at the 
board meeting. 
• The superintendent may direct a trustee to the appropriate staff member for answers to questions. 
• To the best of each board member’s ability, they agree to provide staff with a ‘heads up’ about questions they plan to ask at a board meeting.  
Individual Board 
Member Requests  
for information  
 • Board members requesting information will contact the Superintendent. A Board member will try to give a minimum of one day’s notice for information requests befor e the board meeting.  
• When board members are responding to stakeholder questions, they are encouraged to direct the person to the employee closest to the topic, e.g. teacher, site administrator. If the question is not answered, the board member is encouraged to 
direct  the person to district staff. Note: the board member is not contacting staff, 
rather they shall encourage the stakehol der to contact district staff. Board members 
will notify the Superintendent when this occurs.  
• The Superintendent may direct a trustee to the appropriate staff member or will 
work with staff to provide the information. 
• Board members will be mindful of the workload of staff and will self-monitor requests to ensure that one member’s requests will not divert an inappropriate 
amount of time from staff efforts to achieve district goals.  
• Board members recognize the concept of “Nice to Know vs. Need to Know” 
information and will seek information only needed for effective decision- making.  
Staff Reports  • In order to promote an efficient and effective use of board meetings, staff reports 
will be submitted in the board packet prior to the boar d meetings, whenever 
possible. At the board meetings, staff will present an executive summary of the 
report and clarify the direction t he staff seeks from the Board.  
• Board members will review staff presentations prior to the board meeting, and call 
or e-mail in a dvance with questions as needed.  

Page 12:
10 
 Protocol  Agreement  
Board Deliberation  Each board member brings unique skills, values and beliefs to the board table. The best 
possible decisions are likely when all members of the team have been part of the 
discussion and everyone is operating within the same parameters. This protocol 
promotes making the ‘best’ decision by welcoming all viewpoints, exploring all 
options, being efficient and avoiding repetition.  
• The Board President introduces the item, explains how/when the public may 
comment, and how the board will deliberate. The agenda describes when and how 
the public may speak to any given item.  
• The staff makes the presentation , including the staff recommendation. The board 
asks clarification qu estions about the presentation.  
• The Board President acknowledges any member of the public who wishes to speak. 
• The board may ask for further clarification, following public comments.  
• The board deliberates and advocates.  
• The board votes.   
Allowing the 
majority to set the 
direction  • The board agrees there are multiple ‘right’ answers in addressing issues. Dissenting 
opinions are listened to respectfully. The final authority for board decis ions rests 
with the board as a whole.  
• Prior to a board decision, if a member of the public asks a trustee about a future board decision, the trustee will clarify that he/she is voting as an individual (“I” message).  
• Following a board decision, the trustee agrees to fully support the majority decision (“we” message).  
• Following the decision, if trustees are approached by the media about the decision, 
they will refer the media to the Board President for additional information. 

Page 13:
11 
 Protocol  Agreement  
Electronic and  
Social Media 
Communication  • The governance team recognizes that electronic communication is an efficient and 
convenient way to communicate and expedite the exchange of information.  
• Board members shall exercise caution to ensure that electronic communications are 
not used as a means for the board to deliberate outside of an agendized board 
meeting. Board members will use the ‘reply all’ function in electronic communication cautiously.  
• It is each trustees right to use social media, however, they must clearly distinguish between their personal opinion and a board position; further they must be careful to not offer a personal opinion on a matter that will come before the board for action. 
• Electronically transmitted suggestions or issues will be sent to the superintendent for 
appropriate response and distribution. The Superintendent may handle the issue, 
forward on to staff, or add to the “ Pending Board Matters ” for future discussion.  
• A trustee may respond, as appropriate, to an electronic communication received from a member o f the community and should make clear that his/her response does 
not necessarily reflect the views of the Board as a whole.  
• Any complaint or request for information should be forwarded to the superintendent in accordance with board bylaws and governance protocols so that the issue may be handled through the appropriate process.  
• Like other writings concerning school district business, a trustee’s electronic communication may be subject to disclosure under the California Public Records Act. 
Individual Boar d 
Member Requests  
for Action  • Only the board, by formal board action, may direct staff. No individual trustee has the authority to either direct staff to take action or to cause action to be taken by 
staff indirectly.  
• Individual trustees shall take great  care to ensure that communication to staff not 
imply direction nor assume that staff should take action based upon individual trustees’ comments.  
Addressing Conflict 
Among Board 
Members  • The board values and supports differences of perspective from indi vidual board 
members.  
• The board understands that conflict will exist and recognizes the importance  
of thoughtful and timely conflict resolution to effectiveness and the health of the 
board. The board and individual trustees will address issues as they ari se, working 
together in a professional manner to prevent unresolved conflicts from undercutting 
the effectiveness of the board. 
• When conflicts arise, verbal communication is preferred to address conflicts rather 
than through email. 
 

Page 14:
12 
 Protocol  Agreement  
Community  
Engagement • The governing board is the unit of authority over the district and trustees understand 
that a board member has no individual authority or capacity to solve an issue or 
complaint, neither are they always prepared to offer all answers.  However, board 
members should know where to direct complaints and questions, thoughts and community input. 
• When approached by a community member with an issue or concern, board 
members will listen openly and seek understanding of the issue or concern.  
• The trustee will explain that the district has complaint policies in place and if 
appropriate, will let the community member know what the complaint policy  
is and how they may access the process or procedure.  
• All complaints should be handled first at the level where the issue occ urred. Board 
members will use judgment in responding, being mindful of their role in judicial review.  
• Trustees will call and/or email the superintendent when they direct a community 
member to contact them  or district administration . 
• Board members will str ive to encourage community members to direct questions, 
thoughts and input to the proper committee, task force or work group, e.g. directing a community member’s thoughts on nutrition to a district wellness committee. Thus, 
staff will strive to ensure all committees and work groups have point people 
responsible to accept this input.  
Role in Public  • The Board understands the importance of being visible and accessible to the public. 
Trustees will demonstrate their dedication and commitment to the governance team 
by clarifying their authority as one of five in all board decisions and actions.  
• Trustees represent the board in what they say and do and will set an example  of professionalism. 
School Site 
Visitations • The board understands that periodic visitations  to school sites are  a valuable tool in 
understanding the culture of the school and increasing board member visibility. 
• Trustees wishing to visit a school site will inform the superintendent and contact the site principal in order to arrange a date/time fo r the visit.  
• The principal/designee may  accompany the trustee when visiting classrooms and 
school/site departments.  
• Periodically, the superintendent will arrange for Trustees to accompany them to visit 
school sites.  

Page 15:
13 
 Protocol  Agreement  
Spokes person  
for the Board  
  We beli eve it is essential that important information be communicated to members of 
the board, the staff and the community in as timely a fashion as possible. We recognize 
that some situations have legal or other considerations that may place restrictions on 
what  may be told to the media or public. We believe it is important that we speak with 
one voice in order to maintain the trust of our community. 
The designated spokesperson will vary depending on the issue or situation: • Crisis/Disaster:  The superintendent wil l be the primary spokesperson and may 
involve the board president at their discretion.  
• Meeting Information  (e.g. board meetings, agenda items, study sessions) :  
The board president and the superintendent will serve as primary spokespersons.  
• Core Values /Vi sion / District Priorities / General District Information : All 
governance team members may serve as spokespersons utilizing developed and agreed upon key messages.  
• Board President Leadership When more than one trustee and/or board president 
and superintendent are at an event, if possible, the Board President will speak first 
before the others, as a matter of deference for the position.  
Self Monitoring of 
Governance Team 
Effectiveness  • Conducting a governance self -evaluation demonstrates accountability to th e 
community and the intention of the governance team to strengthen and improve governance practices.  
• Annually, during the organization meeting in December  the board will schedule a 
conversation/study session meeting to reflect on governance practices, to review 
operating protocols and participate in a self -evaluation process.  
Employee Relations  • When employees contact board members, board members will seek to determine if 
the call is regarding a policy matter, which is a legitimate topic to discuss with a 
trustee, or an employment matter. When it is a policy matter, board members will 
listen, and, when possible, encourage the employee to share their thoughts with the 
proper committee or work group. If the topic is an employment matter, the board 
member will  strongly encourage the employee to respect protocol and address the 
matter with the proper administrator.  
Complaints from the 
Public  • Listen to the speake r, carefully noting concerns  
• Recognize their feelings about the situation 
• Acknowledge that the person has concerns and needs a response  
• Ask, where appropriate, what steps they have taken or for clarification of details  
• Acknowledge that board members do not have the authority to resolve complaints 
and that concerns will be referred to the Superintendent/de signee  
• Call the Superin tendent so they can follow through and inform all Board members 
about the issue, the plan to address it, and the ultimate resolution.  
  

Page 16:
14 
  
Planning and Evaluation Processes  
Evaluation Process and Cycle  
The following evaluation processes have been established to ensure that the district is working to 
accomplish established strategic goals.  
District Goal Setting and Goal Evaluation Process 
Given the challenges associated with overlapping planning cycles, the board has outlined the following 
annual calendar for strategic initiative  planning, and g oal setting. Elements of the LCAP and/or District 
Strategic Initiatives  are closely aligned with the budget development process. 
Schedule  Current Year Goals  Next Year Goals  Budget 
Developmen t 
Process  Superintendent 
Evaluation  
January  Mid year goals check 
in and progress 
report.  
Superintendent 
provides the 
community with a “State -of-the-
District” report.  The governance team 
initiates the goal setting for the next school year, including outre ach and 
input gathering from staff and the community. Key issues 
are identified and 
prioritized.  Budget development 
begins.  Mid year  check in and 
progress report. 
Opportunity to do mid year corrections or 
adjustments.  
April  Quarterly check in 
and progre ss report . Prioritized issues 
reviewed by the board with direction to staff 
for goal development.  Second interim 
report.   
May/June  Evaluation of current 
year Strategic Plan, Initiatives, Go als, 
Indicators, and 
Measures. Using 
current year 
Scorecards as a 
guide.  Board  reviews and 
adopts Strategic  
Initiatives, G oals, 
Success Indicators and 
Measures. Sets 
expectations and 
defines key success 
indicators.  Budget is adopted.  End of year report, 
reflection and beginning 
of formal evaluation.  
July/August   Staff develops action 
plans for current year 
goals.  45 day revise.  Complete written 
superintendent evaluation process per contract.  
Establish performance expectations for district goals and board, 
superintendent relations.  
 
 

Page 17:
15 
 September  Strategic Plan 
revisio ns discussed 
and approved by 
Board.     
October  First quarter goals 
check in and 
progress report.   First interim report.   
  

Page 18:
16 
 Appendix A  
EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE1 
 
Utilizing effective governance techniques, private citizens, once elected to school boards, work with 
the superintendent to keep all district efforts focused on student learning. Effective governance tenets encompass the basic characteristics and behaviors that enable governance team members to effectively 
create a climate for excellence in a schoo l district.  
 
Working as a group, board members and the superintendent leverage the efforts of the professional 
staff by setting a direction for the district reflective of the community’s wishes for its children, by 
creating a supportive framework for acti on in the district, by holding the system accountable through 
mutually agreed upon mechanisms, by providing support to students and staff through behaviors and 
actions, and by demonstrating community leadership on behalf of children, district schools and public 
education. When this is done effectively, the chances of a climate for excellence being created in which students thrive increases dramatically.  
 Whether in the boardroom, out in the community or at home, board members are always trustees for the district. The integrity of the school district’s educational program is dependent upon the 
responsible and professional manner in which each board member, and the board collectively, fulfills 
governance roles and responsibilities with the superintendent. The demeanor of governance team members sends an important message to the public. 
 
                                                 
1Source: California School Boards Association  
 

Page 19:
17 
 Appendix B  
EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE  TEAMS 2 
Effective teams value and respect their essential roles, reach mutual agreement on the roles of the 
board and superintendent, and strive to operate within them. 
The community elects school board members to set and monitor the direction of the school district, and 
the district superintendent will translate all efforts into action. Boards and superintendents work 
together to ensure a district has effective leadership. There are important distinctions to be made 
between the board’s role and that of the superintendent and staff. The role of the school board is not to run the schools, but to see that the schools are well run. It is therefore vital that the board and 
superintendent have a respectful and productive working relationship based on trust and open 
communications. 
 
UNDERSTANDING GOVERN ANCE ROLES  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
2 Source: California School Boards As sociation  