210608
DUSD REGULAR BOARD MEETING: NOVEMBER 12 , 2024 
The key items discussed  during the November 12,  2024 Regular Board Meeting include: 
● ITEM F2 : Receive Audit Report for Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 
● ITEM H1 : Resolution No. 2024/25-20, Evaluating Real Property in Accordance with School Site Selection Standards and Approving 
the Acquisition of Real Property 
● ITEM I1 : Resolution No. 2024/25-21, Enhancement of Mental Health Facilities and Resources 
● ITEM I2 : Resolution No. 2024/25-19, Notice of Vacancy in Trustee Area 3 / Provisional Appointment 
● ITEM I3 : Receive Letter of Engagement from the City of Dublin regarding the Softball and Baseball ﬁelds at Fallon Sports Park 
● ITEM J1 : Informational Update on DHS Fencing RFP 
● ITEM K1 : 2024 Data Walk 
ITEM H1 : Resolution No. 2024/25-20, Evaluating Real Property in Accordance with School Site Selection Standards and Approving the 
Acquisition of Real Property 
The District is interested in using real property generally located between Horizon Parkway and Central Parkway in the City of Dublin, 
bearing Assessor’s Parcel Number 986-69-1 (“Property”) for the development, construction, operation, and maintenance of a public school in 
the City of Dublin, including all uses necessary, incidental, or convenient thereto (“Project”). Prior to acquiring real property for a new school 
site or for addition to an existing school site, California Education Code section 17211 requires the Governing Board of a school district to 
evaluate the property at a public hearing using site selection standards established by the State Department of Education. Those standards 
are generally found in the California Code of Regulations, Title 5, Section 14010, et seq. (“Title 5 Findings”). Additional ﬁndings are required 
by the Education Code. The Property has been studied extensively by District staff and consultants. As a result of these studies and 
investigations, it is concluded that all of the Title 5 Findings are supported. Staff recommends that the Board hold a public hearing 
regarding the Title 5 Findings, consider public comment, and adopt Resolution No. 2024/25-20, a Resolution Evaluating Real Property in 
Accordance with School Site Selection Standards and Approving the Acquisition of Real Property. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to read the resolution 
VOTE: Livestream Viewers: 76 Unique Zoom Participants: 1  
ITEM F2 : Receive Audit Report for Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 
As deﬁned in Education Code Section 41020.(a) It is the intent of the Legislature to encourage sound ﬁscal management practices among 
local educational agencies for the most efficient and effective use of public funds for the education of children in California by 
strengthening ﬁscal accountability at the district, county, and state levels.Each year an audit is conducted pursuant to this section which 
shall fully comply with the Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. Each audit conducted in 
accordance with this section shall include all funds of the local educational agency, including the student body and cafeteria funds and 
accounts and any other funds under the control or jurisdiction of the local educational agency. Each audit shall also include an audit of pupil 
attendance procedures. Although it is important to review the audit report in full, the areas that provide speciﬁc documentation and 
explanation of the district’s ﬁnancial condition and ability to operate as a going concern are explained within several key sections of the 
report. Those key areas include: 
- Independent Auditor’s Report 
- Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
- Other Independent Auditor’s Reports 
- Notes to Financial Statements 
In addition to these sections, it is important to review and understand the auditor’s ﬁndings and recommendations. The Audit Report and 
Financial Statements for the year ended June 30, 2024 will be presented by Crowe LLP. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to read all related documents 
VOTE: 
AYE- Pelham, Kuo, Cherrier, Blackman, Speck, Peswani (Advisory) NAY -
AYE Pelham, Kuo, Cherrier, Blackman, Speck, Peswani (Advisory) NAY -
210608
ITEM I1 : Resolution No. 2024/25-21, Enhancement of Mental Health Facilities and Resources 
Dublin High seniors Vedant Sagare and Olivia Choe are presenting a resolution to build on the existing mental health support already available in our 
schools. While the District currently provides valuable wellness resources, this resolution suggests additional steps to expand access and strengthen 
support on every campus. The proposal includes ongoing support for mental health staff, extending Social Emotional Learning (SEL) to all grade levels, and 
adding more wellness spaces to create a welcoming and inclusive environment for all students. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to read the resolution 
VOTE: (No vote taken. A revised version of the resolution to return at a future date) 
AYE - NAY -
ITEM I2 : Resolution No. 2024/25-19, Notice of Vacancy in Trustee Area 3 / Provisional Appointment 
Board members generally hold their seats for a four-year term, commencing the second Friday in December succeeding the election  ( Board Bylaw 9110 ). 
The four-year term officially commences at the annual organizational meeting where the new members take the oath of office and are seated. This annual  
organizational meeting must occur within 15 days following the second Friday in December in years where a general election takes place. (Ed. Code §  35143.)   
Trustee Kuo’s current two term will expire in December and the vacancy will occur as of the 2024 organizational meeting DUSD trustees are seated. Jeff  
Clark was the only candidate who pulled candidacy papers for the November 5, 2024, election for the Area 3 trustee position. Mr. Clark is automatically  
seated unless and until he resigns that seat. Mr. Clark has submitted his resignation. In this case, the resignation could not be effective before he was to  
take office. The organizational meeting will trigger the vacancy for Area 3. Pursuant to Board Bylaw 9223 , Filling Vacancies, the Board, by resolution, may  
approve the procedures for selecting the person to be provisionally appointed to ﬁll the vacancy. The bylaw prescribes that the procedures must include 1)  
advertising in local media to solicit candidates; 2) verifying that applicants are eligible for Board membership and announcing the names of eligible  
candidates; and 3) interviewing candidates at a public meeting, accepting public input, and selecting the provisional appointee by a majority vote.  Attached  
is Resolution 2024/25-19, which outlines the procedures for a Provisional Appointment created by the resignation of Jeff Clark from Area 3. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to read the resolution 
VOTE 1: (To approve the resolution as written) 
VOTE 2: (To strike the previous vote, reopen the discussion and include a timeline for the provisional appointment process. The action to reopen was  voted 
on only by board members who approved the previous motion) 
VOTE 3: (To approve the resolution with the understanding that the provisional appointment shall be scheduled to occur at the December 17, 2024 regular 
board meeting) AYE Pelham, Kuo, Speck, Peswani (Advisory) NAY Cherrier, Blackman 
ITEM I3 : Receive Letter of Engagement from the City of Dublin regarding the Softball and Baseball ﬁelds at Fallon Sports Park 
The footprint of Emerald High School is not large enough to house all the components of a traditional comprehensive high school. Staff has been engaged  
with the City of Dublin to ﬁnd a home for the Emerald High School softball and baseball teams. The attached Letter of Engagement outlines the  
commitment that both parties have made to solve this issue facing DUSD and Emerald High School. The City of Dublin, DUSD, and Dublin Little League have  
worked together to meet the needs of all three entities. Forthcoming will be a facilities use agreement, which will include the DUSD ﬁnancial contribution  
to the City of Dublin to upgrade three ﬁelds at Emerald Glen Park to accommodate the impact to Dublin Little League by moving the access to playing ﬁelds  
at the Fallon Sports Complex to Emerald Glen Park. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to see all related documents 
VOTE: (No vote taken) 
AYE NAY -AYE Pelham, Kuo, Speck NAY 
AYE Pelham, Kuo, Speck, Peswani (Advisory) NAY Cherrier, Blackman 
ITEM J1 : Informational Update on DHS Fencing RFP 
In response to concerns expressed by the Dublin High School community, staff has speciﬁed a fencing project to improve security at the site, and  
published a Request for Proposals. Responses to that RFP process are due November 15, 2024. Maintenance and operations staff worked with site staff  
and students to develop an appropriate design. Tonight staff will present an overview of the design of the project, expected cost, and a potential project  
funding source. 
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to see all related documents 
VOTE: (No vote taken) 
AYE NAY -
210608
ADJOURNMENT: ADJOURNMENT: 
Open Session for the November 12, 2024 Regular Board Meeting adjourned at 9:58 PM. All Consent Agenda items ( ITEMS L1-P2 ) were approved by the Board. CONSENT AGENDA: 
December 3 & 17:  Regular Board Meeting @ 6PM UPCOMING BOARD MEETINGS: 
BOARD MEETING INFORMATION: 
For information on how to contact Board members, review current or past Board agendas, view archived Board meeting videos, participate in the Public 
Comment period of a Board meeting, and more, visit the Board section of the DUSD website . All meetings are live streamed at DublinUSD.tv 
KEY DISTRICT DATES: 2024-2025 SCHOOL YEAR 
November 22:  No School TK-8 
November 25-29: Thanksgiving Break 
December 23 - January 6: Winter Break 
January 20: Martin Luther King Day 
February 14: No School 
February 17: Presidents Day March 14:  No School 
April 7 - 11: Spring Break 
May 26: Memorial Day 
June 3: Last Day of School 9-12 
June 4:  Last Day of School TK-8 
June 19: Juneteenth ITEM K1 : 2024 Data Walk 
Educational Services staff will present the annual Data Walk for the Board of Trustees to provide an in-depth examination of student achievement and  
wellness data.  
The purpose of the Data Walk is to report Key Performance Measures (KPMs) associated with our Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP) goals. The Board  
of Trustees will be able to examine academic achievement related to English language arts, math, college, and career readiness; and social and emotional  
data related to wellness and counseling supports. The data presented during the Data Walk will be aligned with our LCAP Goals: 
Goal 1:  DUSD will increase opportunities and support for our traditionally underserved student groups to improve academic achievement outcomes in  
English language arts and Mathematics. 
Goal 2:  DUSD will increase student achievement for all students by providing a wide array of educational options and ensuring that all seniors graduate  
prepared for college and careers. 
Goal 3:  DUSD will provide all students with a safe, welcoming, and inclusive environment that supports their social-emotional needs. 
Goal 5: DUSD will engage parents and students to strengthen partnerships to maximize student learning.  
ATTACHMENTS: Click here to see all related documents 
VOTE: (No vote taken) 
AYE NAY -